>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SATURDAY,
OCTOBER 19th
NEW EFFORTS TO END THE WAR I
SYRIA.
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, YOUN
FOREIGN ENTREPRENEURS LEAVIN
THE UNITED STATES BEHIND FOR A
BETTER DEAL.
>> THE U.S. GOVERNMENT IS NO
ISSUING VISAS, WHY DON'T YOU
COME TO CHILE?
YOU'RE VERY WELCOME.
>> AND THE OVERTURES BY POPE
FRANCIS TO THE JEWISH COMMUNITY.
NEXT ON PBS "NEWS HOUR WEEKEND."
FROM THE TISH WNET STUDIOS I
LINCOLN CENTER, NEW YORK
HARI SREENIVASAN
>>> GOOD EVENING
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERR
TRAVELING TO EUROPE EARLY NEXT
WEEK TO EXPLORE WAYS TO END TH
CIVIL WAR IN SYRIA
INTERNATIONAL PEACE CONFERENCE
COULD BE HELD IN SWITZERLAND
NEXT MONTH
JUST TODAY, AT LEAST 30 PEOPLE
WERE KILLED NEAR DAMASCUS, AFTER
A SUICIDE BOMBING AGAINST SYRIAN
SECURITY FORCES AND THE CLASHE
WITH REBELS THAT FOLLOWED.
EARLIER THIS WEEK, A SENIO
SYRIAN INTELLIGENCE OFFICIAL WAS
KILLED BY REBELS
ESTIMATED 100,000 SYRIANS HAVE
BEEN KILLED DURING THE
THREE-YEAR LONG CIVIL WAR BU
EXTENT OF THE SUFFERING IS
RARELY SEEN BECAUSE OF THE
DANGERS OF REPORTING THE STORY
THREE ARAB JOURNALISTS WER
ABDUCTED IN SYRIA JUST THI
WEEK
TONIGHT, A RARE LOOK INSIDE TH
WAR ZONE BY ITN'S BILL NEELY
WE SHOULD WARN YOU, SOME OF TH
IMAGES ARE DIFFICULT TO WATCH.
>> Reporter: IT'S THE SOUNDTRACK
OF A WAR THAT CLAIMS HUNDRED
EVERY WEEK
HOSPITALS AT THE HEART OF IT
LIKE THE VICTIMS, CAUGHT IN TH
MIDDLE
AMONG THE BODIES BROUGHT HERE, A
MOTHER AND HER TWO CHILDREN.
SYRIA'S WAR, LIKE SO MANY, A
SLAUGHTER OF THE INNOCENCE
THIS LITTLE BOY'S RIBS WER
BROKEN IN THE SAME EXPLOSION
NEARBY, A YOUNGER BOY, WHO HAS
BEEN SHOT.
HIS EYES TELL THE STORY OF HIS
STRUGGLE FOR LIFE.
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF CHILDRE
HAVE DIED IN THIS WAR, AMONG
THOSE TRYING TO SAVE MAN
OTHERS, ONE OF BRITAIN'S TOP
SURGEONS
DAVID SPENT FIVE WEEKS IN ONE OF
SYRIA'S MOST DANGEROUS AREAS
HE WORKED 18 HOURS A DAY I
BREAKS RECORDING HIS THOUGHT
AND HIS EXHAUSTION
>> I HAVE BEEN OPERATING HER
TODAY AND UNDER INTENS
DIFFICULTY
WE'VE HAD FIVE GUNSHOT WOUND
PATIENTS IN THE LAST SIX T
EIGHT HOURS AND WE JUST HEAR
NOT FAR AWAY
IT'S ALL FULL-ON
>> Reporter: HE RARELY LEFT TH
HOSPITAL
EVEN OUTSIDE, THERE WAS LI
RESPITE.
THERE'S A SHORTAGE OF EVERYTHING
HERE, EXCEPT CASUALTIES.
STICKY TAPE IS USED TO HOLD DOWN
A PATIENT.
THE DIY DRILL IS USED IN
OPERATIONS IN A ROOM WHOSE
WINDOW HAS BEEN BLOWN OUT BY A
EXPLOSION.
>> IT'S A PURE WAR ZONE, S
PEOPLE ARE TRYING TO THEIR VER
BEST BUT THERE ARE -- THERE'
HARDLY ANY PROPERLY MEDICALL
QUALIFIED PEOPLE TO DO THE JOB
IT'S VERY DIFFICULT.
>> Reporter: MOST OF HIS
PATIENTS WERE WOMEN AND CHILDREN
BY IT'S HOW THE SNIPERS TARGETED
THEM THAT IS HIS WAR'S REA
HORROR
ONE HE REVEALED BACK IN BRITAIN.
>> IT SEEM TO ME IT WAS A GAME
THEY WERE HAVING WITH EACH
OTHER, ONE DAY WE'D HAVE
PREGNANT WOMEN BEING BROUGHT I
WITH GUNSHOT WOUNDS TO THE
UTERUS, NOT ONLY ONE OR TWO, BUT
SEVEN OR EIGHT WHICH MEANT TO ME
IN THEY MUST BE TARGETIN
PREGNANT WOMEN AND THE FOLLOWING
DAY, WE WOULD GET PEOPLE COMIN
IN WITH CHEST WOUNDS IN TH
RIGHT SIDE OF THEIR CHEST AN
THEN THE FOLLOWING DAY
EVERYBODY WOULD COME IN WITH A
GROIN WOUND.
SO IT SEEMED TO ME THAT THER
WAS A SORT OF LIKE A DEATH GAM
GOING ON WITH THE SNIPERS.
>> Reporter: VERY OFTEN, THE
SNIPERS' GAME TOOK CHILDREN'
LIVES.
>> MANY CHILDREN WOULD DIE O
THE OPERATING TABLE BECAUSE YO
JUST WERE A LITTLE TOO LATE TO
GET TO THE BLOOD VESSEL AND IT
WAS -- IT WAS VERY PAINFUL,
LOT OF THE TIME.
I MEAN, THEY DIE IN FRONT OF
YOUR EYES.
IF YOU HAD A DEATH ON THE TABLE,
YOU DIDN'T HAVE THE TIME EVEN TO
GRIEVE OVER YOUR PATIENT THA
DIED
>> Reporter: DOCTORS HAVE BEEN
TARGETED, TOO.
A BRITISH COLLEAGUE OF DAVID'S
WAS KILLED THIS YEAR
ANOTHER EXPLOSION, THE HOSPITA
IS ON THE FRONT LINE
THIS LITTLE GIRL HAS BEEN SHOT
IN FACE BUT SHE AND ALL OF THE
CHILDREN YOU'VE SEEN IN TH
REPORT SURVIVE
SYRIA'S DEATH TOLL, THOUGH
TELLS ANOTHER STORY.
DESPITE THE BEST EFFORTS O
DOCTORS LIKE DAVID
BILL NEILY, ITV NEWS
>> FOR A BROADER LOOK, JOINED BY
WASHINGTON FROM ANDREW TABLER AT
THE WASHINGTON INSTITUTE
SO, FIRST, LET'S START TALKING
ABOUT THIS POSSIBLE, TENTATIVE
MEETING IN GENEVA SECRETARY OF
STATE KERRY AND OTHERS HAVE BEEN
HINTING AT
IF THERE WERE PEACE TALKS WH
SITS AT TABLE BETWEEN SYRIA AN
THE REBELS
>> THE SYRIAN GOVERNMENT SEEMS
LEAK IT WOULD SHOW UP ON BEHAL
OF THE REBELS IT'S FAR FRO
QULEER SYRIAN OPPOSITION
COALITION, THE LARGEST UMBRELL
WOULD BE THE PARTY THAT WOUL
SIT ACROSS FROM THE ASSA
GOVERNMENT BUT IT'S UNCLEAR IF
THE MEMBERSHIP OF THAT BODY,
SPECIFIC LIT SYRIAN NATIONAL
COUNCIL, WHICH HOLDSES THE
LARGEST NUMBER OF SEATS WOUL
AGREE.
IN THE COMING DAYS THERE WOULD
BE MEETING TO DETERMINE UNDE
WHAT CIRCUMSTANCES AND WHO WOULD
GO TO GENEVA
>> HOW MUCH OF THAT IS DECIDED
ON THE SITUATION ON THE GROUND
TODAY, WHETHER ONE SIDE IS
GAINING OR LOSING TERRITORY.
>> THE ARMED GROUPS INSIDE O
THE COUNTRY ARE THE ONES THA
ARE REALLY CONTROLLING THE SOR
OF FLOW OF BATTLE AND THEY ARE
THE ONES ALSO THAT ALONG WIT
THE CIVILIANS AND LOCAL AREA
INSIDE OF SYRIA, THEY'RE THE
ONES THAT CARRY THE WEIGHT O
THE BURDEN OF THE REVOLUTION
IT'S UNCLEAR IF THEY WOULD B
INVOLVED IN THE TALKS, MANY AR
AGAINST THEM, SPECIFICALLY SOM
OF THE MORE ISLAMIST BRIGADE
AND THAT'S GOING TO BE A
CONSTRAINT UPON ANY PARTY THAT
SITS ACROSS FROM THE ASSAD
REGIME IN GENEVA
>> HAVE WE SEEN ANOTHER SHIFT IN
MOMENTUM
>> I THINK THAT WE STILL SEE THE
BACK AND FORTH BETWEEN THE ASSAD
REGIME AND THE REBEL FORCES,
ASSAD REGIME PUSHING INTO AREA
WHERE THE RUBBLES CARRYING OUT
SPECTACULAR ATTACKS ON CHECK
POINTS, SOMETIMES SUICID
BOMBINGS
ALSO, A KILLING OF A MAJOR
INTELLIGENCE OFFICIAL IN THE
EASTERN CITY
SO, THEY CONTINUE TO DUKE IT OUT
THROUGHOUT SYRIA WHILE THOSE I
GENEVA PREPARE FOR TALKS THA
MIGHT BE
>> WE ALSO HAVE INDICATIONS NO
THAT TURKEY'S GETTING INVOLVED
THEY'RE STARTING TO FIGHT SOME
OF THE REBELS BUT THEY HAV
THEIR OWN REASONS.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
THE PROBLEM IN THE NORTH AND THE
EAST EXTREMISTS, AL QAED
AFFILIATES, HAVE GROWN I
STATURE AND NUMBER BECAUSE THOSE
BORDERS ARE MORE OR LESS OPE
AND THE PROBLEM IS THAT IT RUN
AGAINST A LOT OF TURKISH
POLICIES, SPECIFICALLY
CONCERNING THE SITUATION IN TH
SOUTHEASTERN PART OF THE
COUNTRY.
SO, A LOT OF THE BATTLES BETWEEN
THE MAIN LINE OPPOSITION FORCE
AND EXTREMISTS CONCERN BORDE
CROSSINGS, CONCERN SMUGGLING AND
FINANCING THE REVOLUTION
>> THIS IS GOING TO SEEM
SPECULATIVE BUT ANY CHANCE OF
PEACEFUL RESOLUTION SNEER IN
WE'RE VERY FAR FROM THAT
UNCLEAR IF GENEVA WILL GET THE
BASICS, A CEASE-FIRE O
ANYTHING
IT SEEMS AS IF WESTERN
COUNTRIES, AS WELL AS RUSSIA
WOULD LIKE TO PUSH FOR TALKS A
THIS POINT TO GET THEM ROLLING
THE QUESTION IS, IS THE PART
THAT SITS ACROSS FROM THE ASSA
REGIME AMONG THE OPPOSITION, ARE
THEY GOING TO BE THEN HELD INT
ACCOUNT CONCERNING JUST MEETIN
WITH THE ASSAD REGIME?
THAT'S UNCLEAR AT THIS POINT
>> ANDREW TABLER FRO
WASHINGTON, THANKS SO MUCH
>> THANK YOU
>> WORD FROM WASHINGTON TONIGH
JPMORGAN CHASE AGREED TO PAY A
$13 BILLION FINE FOR ITS ROL
SELLING FAULTY MORTGAG
SECURITIES TO UNSUSPECTING
INVESTORS IN THE DAYS LEADING UP
TO 2008 FINANCIAL CRISIS
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT, WHIC
AGREED TO THE SETTLEMENT I
STILL CONDUCTING A CRIMINA
INVESTIGATION.
THE COMPANY'S SAID TO BE
COOPERATING WITH THA
INVESTIGATION.
THE UNITED NATIONS IS CALLING ON
THE UNITED STATES TO DETAIL HO
MANY CIVILIANS IT BELIEVES HAV
BEEN KILLED IN DRONE ATTACKS
TARGETING ISLAMIC MILITANTS IN
YEMEN, AFGHANISTAN, PAKISTAN
ESTIMATES VARY WIDELY FROM
SEVERAL HUNDRED TO MORE THAN
2,000.
AMERICAN DRONE ATTACKS I
PAKISTAN ARE LIKELY TO B
DISCUSSED WHEN THE PRIME
MINISTER TRAVELS TO WASHINGTON
NEXT WEEK.
>>> INTO THE EAST AFRICAN NATION
OF SOMALIA, 16 PEOPLE WERE
KILLED IN A SUICIDE BOMBING.
THE EXPLOSION OCCURRED AT A CAFE
USED BY LOCAL AND FOREIG
SOLDIERS FIGHTING ISLAMI
MILITANTS.
AL SHABAAB CLAIMED
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ATTACK.
>>> IN ENGLAND TODAY, A VIOLIN
BELIEVED TO HAVE BEEN PLAYED O
THE "TITANIC" TO CALM TH
PASSENGERS AS THE SHIP WAS
SINKING WAS AUCTIONED OFF FO
1.5 MILLION.
FOUR TIMES MORE THAN ANY ITE
RECOVERED FROM THE DOOMED LINER.
THEY SAY THE WOOD STILL CONTAINS
SALT DEPOSITS FROM THE SEAWATER.
THE INSTRUMENT REPORTEDLY FOUN
IN A LEATHER CASE STRAPPED T
THE BODY OF THE SHIP'S BAN
LEADER
HIS BODY RECOVERED TEN DAY
AFTER THE SHIP WENT DOWN
THE VIOLIN WAS A GIFT TO HIM
FROM HIS FIANCEE
>>> WORD OF A FINAL HEROIC ACT
FROM ONE OF THE FIRST GRADER
KILLED DURING THE MASSACRER AT
NEWTOWN LAST DECEMBER.
JESSE LEWIS SHOUTED, RUN, WHEN
ADAM PUT A NEW CLIP INTO HIS
RIFLE.
SEVERAL OF THE CHILDREN DID, AND
LIVED.
BUT JESSE WAS SHOT IN THE HEAD
SECONDS LATER.
HE WAS 6 YEARS OLD
>>> NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
OUR IN-DEPTH REPORTS FROM AROUND
THE NATION AND AROUND THE WORLD.
ALMOST AS SOON AS CONGRESS VOTED
THIS WEEK TO REOPEN TH
GOVERNMENT AND RAISE THE DEB
CEILING, THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION RENEWED ITS PUS
FOR IMMIGRATION REFORM
THE SENATE PASSED
COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION BILL
IN JUNE, BUT THE HOUSE HAS NOT
TAKEN IT UP.
AND ITS CHANCE THERE'S REMAI
UNCERTAIN.
ONE IDEA MANY DEMOCRATS AN
REPUBLICANS AGREE ON IS MAKING
IT EASIER FOR HIGHLY SKILLED
FORRERNS TO WORK IN THE UNITED
STATES
BUT THAT HASN'T BEEN ADOPTED
BECAUSE IT'S BEEN CAUGHT UP IN
THE LARGER IMMIGRATION DEBATE.
NOW, AT LEAST ONE OTHER NATION
CHILE, IS CAPITALIZING O
AMERICA'S IMMIGRATION STALEMATE.
A REPORT IS BY OUR SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT PETER EISNER
>> Reporter: WHAT DRAWS
HIGH-TECH FURNITUREMAKER FRO
IRELAND TO SANTIAGO CHILE?
OR CONVINCES A NEUROSCIENTIS
FROM THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGA
TO SET UP BUSINESS HERE?
IT ALL STARTED WITH
DEVASTATING EARTHQUAKE IN CHIL
IN 20 SO THAT KILLED MORE THAN
500 PEOPLE
>> WE LOST TWO FAMILY MEMBER
AND WHEN WE GOT THE E-MAIL, THAT
E-MAIL IMMEDIATELY MY WIFE AND
I, YOU KNOW, JUST SAID, WE'R
GOING BACK HOME.
AT THE TIME OF THE EARTHQUAKE,
NICHOLAS WAS A GRADUATE STUDENT.
HE WANTED TO HELP HIS COUNTR
REBUILD BUT HOW COULD THIS
BUDDING ENTREPRENEUR HELP TH
RECOVERY EFFORT?
INSPIRATION, WHEN HE SAW HOW
FOREIGN STUDENTS ATTENDING
STANFORD WERE FORCED TO LEAV
THE UNITED STATES AFTE
GRADUATION BECAUSE O
DIFFICULTIES GETTING A VISA.
>> THERE WERE HUNDREDS AND
THOUSANDS OF ENTREPRENEURS THA
WERE NOT BEING AND ARE NOT BEING
WELCOMED IN THE U.S.
I REMEMBER, YOU KNOW, THINKING
HOW MUCH IF I WERE PRESIDENT O
I HAD -- I WAS IN A POSITION O
POWER, HOW MUCH WOULD I PAY EACH
ONE OF THOSE INDIVIDUALS TO COME
AND SPEND SOME TIME IN CHILE
>> Reporter: THINKING ABOU
PEOPLE LIKE JAMES McBENNETT OF
DUBLIN, IRELAND.
HIS COMPANY, FABZI, USES COMPUTE
TO CONTROL WOODWORKING TOOLS
LIKE THIS.
THE MACHINE CUTS A PIECE O
FURNITURE TO EXACT SPECIFICATION
SO IT COULD FIT IN, SAY, A SMALL
NEW YORK CITY APARTMENT.
>> WHAT I WANT IT TO BE IS ABOUT
DOWNLOADABLE FILES TO MAKE
FURNITURE AND IT'S IN A WAY
COMBINATION 0 BETWEEN iTUNES AND
IKEA
>> FIRST THING THAT COMES TO
MIND, NATURAL MARKET IN TH
UNITED STATES.
WHY NOT DO THIS IN THE UNITE
STATES
>> FOR ME TO GO THER
PERSONALLY, I CAN'T GO FOR VIS
REASONS.
>> Reporter: McBENNETT WOULD
HAVE LIKED TO HAVE START I
BROOKLYN, NEW YORK
>> IF YOU WANT TO GET IN THE
IDEAS THAT ARE REALLY EARLY YO
NEED TO MOVE TO THE BEST PLACE
TO DO THAT AND STILL REMAIN AT
LOW COST
>> Reporter: THAT'S WHER
NICHOLAS SHEA COMES IN
HE REALIZED CHILE COULD BE THA
PLACE.
SO THE FIRST THING HE DID WAS TO
CONDUCT HIS OWN PERSONAL FOCUS
GROUPS AT STANFORD UNIVERSITY.
>> WE ASKED THEM, WHAT WOULD VIE
TO DO FOR YOU TO COME TO CHILE
FOR A WHILE?
>> Reporter: THIS YOUNG CHILEA
ENTREPRENEUR CAME HOME FROM TH
UNITED STATES WITH AN IDEA
WHAT IF CHILEAN BUSINESS
REINVENTED ITSELF?
WHY COULDN'T CHILE PLAY WITH THE
BIG BOYS OF TECHNOLOGY
HE WENT STRAIGHT TO THE CHILEA
GOVERNMENT WITH A RADICAL PLAN
TO ATTRACT PROSPECTIVE
ENTREPRENEURS.
HE PROPOSED THE GOVERNMENT GIV
THEM $40,000 EACH TO DEVELOP
THEIR IDEAS.
AND THE ENTREPRENEURS WOULDN'T
HAVE TO PAY IT BACK.
IN RETURN, PARTICIPANT IS GIVING
BACK TO SOCIETY, GIVING LECTURES
AND MENTORING WOULD-BE CHILEAN
ENTREPRENEURS.
AS JAMES McBENNETT IS DOIN
HERE
>> WHAT MIGHT FIT IN
SAN FRANCISCO AND NEW YORK JUS
REALLY MIGHT NOT SUIT LATI
AMERICAN CULTURE
>> Reporter: NICHOLAS CALLED I
START-UP CHILE
FROM THE BEGINNING HE HAD GRAN
PLANS.
>> WE ASKED FOR $1 MILLION T
FUND 25 START-UPS AND IF THA
WORKED, I -- WE WOULD GET $5
MILLION MORE AND WE WOULD FUND
THE PROJECT FOR THE NEXT FOU
YEARS WITH THE GOAL OF BRINGIN
IN 1,000 START-UPS TO CHILE.
>> Reporter: TO HIS SURPRISE
GOVERNMENT BROUGHT INTO TH
PLAN
SINCE THE GOVERNMENT STARTED I
20 SO, CHILE HAS GIVEN GRANTS TO
663 START-UPS, WORTH MORE THAN
$28 MILLION.
>> THE CULTURE IN CHILE IS I
SOMEBODY FAILS IN THE BUSINESS
HE'S A LOSER
WE WANT TO BRING PEOPLE FROM
ABROAD THAT SAY, HEY, DON'T BE
WORRIED, IF YOU FAIL, YOU CA
START UP AGAIN
>> Reporter: THIS MAN RUNS THE
CHILEAN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
AGENCY
OVERSEES START-UP CHILE.
>> WHAT WE WANT IS THAT THEY GET
IN TOUCH WITH OUR LOCA
COMMUNITY OF ENTREPRENEURS, THAT
THEY GO AND TALK TO TH
STUDENTS
WE WANT TO CHANGE OUR CULTURE.
WE WANT TO BE A COUNTRY WITH A
CULTURE OF ENTREPRENEURS
>> Reporter: BUT START-UP CHIL
ONLY REQUIRES YOUNG INNOVATORS
TO STAY IN SANTIAGO SIX MONTHS
AFTER THAT, THEY'RE FREE TO MOVE
THE COMPANY ANYWHERE I IN TH
WORLD.
HOW HAS CHILE BENEFITTED FRO
SOMEBODY LEAVING AND NOT COMIN
BACK
>> MAYBE NOT COMING BACK BUT
HE'S IN TOUCH WITH GLOBA
NETWORK OF GLOBAL ENTREPRENEUR
AND THEY KNOW THAT CHILE IS TH
PLACE WHERE THEY CAN START UP
BUSINESS
BUT THE REAL EFFECT OF THE
PROGRAM WILL BE NOTICED IN FIVE,
TEN YEARS, WHEN WE WILL NOTICE
HOW OUR YOUNG PEOPLE HAV
CHANGED THE MIND-SET
>> Reporter: THAT CULTURAL
CHANGE IS STARTING TO TAKE ROOT.
MORE THAN 20% OF APPLICATION
FOR START-UP CHILE COME FROM
CHILE ITSELF
LIKE DANIEL, A COUPLE OF YEARS
AGO HE COULD ONLY DREAM OF START
A MULTINATIONAL BUSINESS
>> IF YOU TALK TO SOMEONE THAT
ALREADY MADE AN INTERNET COMPANY
AND WAS SUCCESSFUL AND STORIES
FROM CHILE OR STORIES FROM
COLOMBIA OR STORIES FROM MEXICO,
YOU SAY, WELL, NOT ONLY HAPPEN
IN THE STATE, IT CAN HAPPEN ALSO
IN CHILE
>> Reporter: HE HAS DESIGNED A
WEBSITE CALLED GO PLACES WHICH
HELPS RENTERS AND APARTMENT BUYS
MAP OUT AND LOCATE EXACTLY WHERE
THEY'D LIKE TO LIVE.
IT'S BEEN A BIG HIT, AND HE'
EXPANDING AROUND LATIN AMERICA
>> THE FIRST MONTH WE'VE GOT
10,000 USERS AND RIGHT NOW W
HAVE 150,000 USERS
AND WE HAVE RAISED IN TOTAL $1.2
MILLION.
>> Reporter: THE QUESTION,
THOUGH, IS HOW CHILE MEASURE
THE SUCCESS OF A PROGRAM THA
GIVES SEED MONEY AND SUPPORT T
ITS PARTICIPANTS WITHOUT ASKIN
FOR ANY STAKE IN THE COMPANY
THE DATA'S STILL BEING
COLLECTED, AND THE NUMBERS STILL
IMPRECISE, THE INVESTMENT HA
BEEN NET-POSITIVE.
BECAUSE THE FOREIG
ENTREPRENEURS SPEND MONEY IN
SANTIAGO, FRIENDS AND FAMILY
VISIT FROM ABROAD AND 2 TO 4
CHILEANS ARE HIRED FOR EVERY
START-UP FUNDED.
>> TWO OR THREE YEARS AFTER TH
FIRST GROUP, I CAN TELL YOU THAT
THE RETURN ON THE CHILEA
TAXPAYERS' INVESTMENT HAS BEEN
HUGE
>> Reporter: BEYOND THE NUMBERS,
START-UP CHILE HAS PUT CHILICO
VALLEY ON THE MAP IN HIGH-TECH
AMERICA.
>> FEW COUNTRIES OF GOVERNMENT
HAVE PUT THEMSELVES IN THE SHOES
OF ENTREPRENEURS
IT'S A SMART CHOICE HOW THEY'V
ORGANIZED THE PROGRAM.
>> Reporter: FOR IRISH
ENTREPRENEUR JAMES McBENNETT
HE'S GRATEFUL TO CHILE FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY HE'S BEEN GIVEN.
BUT LIKE MOST FOREIG
ENTREPRENEURS THAT HAVE GONE
THROUGH THE PROGRAM, HE'LL
PROBABLY HIT THE ROAD WHEN H
GRADUATES FROM START-UP CHILE.
WHAT'S THE NEXT STOP FOR YOU I
DEVELOPING YOUR IDEA AFTER CHILE
IN
>> AFTER CHILE, I'M STILL NO
SURE
THERE'S THE OPTION TO TAKE THE
LARGE MACHINE AND MOVE INTO MY
PARENTS' HOUSE AND PUT IT IN THE
BACKYARD AND GET COSTS DOWN TO
ZERO
>> Reporter: POSSIBLY FIND YOU
DREAM IN BROOKLYN?
>> I THINK TO SCALE THE COMPANY,
BROOKLYN'S VERY MUCH NEEDED.
IT'S ALMOST JUMPING THROUG
LOOPHOLES TO GET THERE
>> SHOULD THE UNITED STATES BE
DOING MORE TO RETAIN
ENTREPRENEURIAL TALENT
VISIT NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG
>>> SINCE BEING ELECTED SEVE
MONTHS AGO, POPE FRANCIS HAS
MADE A NUMBER OF OVERTURES T
THE JEWISH COMMUNITY INCLUDING
ONE PUBLIC GESTURE THIS WEEK
WE'RE JOINED BY KIM LAWTON FOR
THE PUBLIC TELEVISION PROGRA
RELIGION AND ETHICS NEWS WEEKLY.
THE POPE SAID TO CATHOLI
CHURCHES IN ROME, NO ONE SHOUL
BE PROVIDING A FUNERAL MASS FO
THE CONVICTED NAZI WAR CRIMINA
WHO JUST PASSED AWAY
WHY IS THIS SIGNATURE?
>> THIS WAS JUST ANOTHER
INDICATION OF THE VASTLY
IMPROVED RELATIONS BETWEEN THE
JEWISH COMMUNITY AND THE CAT
CATHOLIC CHURCH.
THERE HAVE BEEN A LOT OF
QUESTIONS ABOUT THE CATHOLIC
CHURCH'S ROLE IN HOW MUCH IT DID
TO HELP JEWS DURING THE HOLLOW
CAST, IT'S A SENSITIVE ISSUE
BETWEEN CATHOLICS AND JEWS
IT'S A SYMBOLIC GESTURE TO SAY
THE CATHOLIC CHURCH WA
SUPPORTIVE OF THE JEWISH
COMMUNITY, UNDERSTOOD TH
CONCERNS AND DID NOT WANT TO ADD
TO THE CONCERNS.
SYMBOLIC GESTURE
>> LAST MONTH THE PRESIDENT OF
THE WORLD JEWISH COUNCIL MET
WITH THE POPE AND AFTER TH
MEETING HE SAID, QUOTE, IN THE
PAST 2,000 YEARS TIES BETWEE
THE CATHOLIC CHURCH AND JEWS HAD
NEVER BEEN THIS GOOD
THIS IS A LONG PROCESS IN TH
MAKING, RIGHT?
>> A VERY LONG PROCESS
I MEAN, FOR 2000 YEAR THAT WAS A
BIG ISSUE OF THE CATHOLIC CHURCH
BLAMING ALL JEWS FOR DEATH O
JESUS, THAT LED SO PERSECUTION
VIOLENCE
IN THE 1960s THE VATICAN I
ISSUED A DOCUMENT SAYING ALL
JEWS SHOULD NOT BE HEL
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE DEATH OF
JESUS AND STRONGLY DENOUNCED
ANTI-SEMITISM.
THAT TOOK A LONG TIME TO FILTE
DOWN TO THE PEWS
SO YOU KNOW, IT'S BEEN A GRADUAL
PROCESS.
JOHN PAUL II VERY MUCH IMPROVE
RELATIONS WITH THE JEWIS
COMMUNITY.
A LOT OF JEWS CALL HIM THE FIRST
JEWISH POPE.
WITH POPE FRANCIS, THERE'S A LOT
OF OPTIMISM THAT KIND OF
IMPROVEMENT IS GOING CONTINUE.
>> THE VATICAN SAYS THERE'S
POSSIBLE TRIP IN THE WORKS T
ISRAEL
YOU'VE BEEN ON THESE TRIPS, TW
PREVIOUS POPES HAVE TAKEN.
WHY ARE THEY SO SIGNIFICANT?
>> IT WAS EXCITING TO BE ON TH
VISITS
I WAS ON THE PRESS CORPSER
VISITING ISRAEL HAS BECOME
ALMOST A REQUIRED TRAVEL FOR A
POPE
JOHN PAUL II WAS THE FIRST POP
TO FORMALLY VISIT ISRAEL
POPE PAUL VI VISITED BRIEFLY FOR
A FEW HOURS, HE WENT T
JERUSALEM IN 1960s
IN 2000, WHEN JOHN PAUL II WEN
IT WAS SIGNALING A NEW ERA I
JEWISH CATHOLIC RELATIONSHIPS.
SO TO SEE IMAGES OF JOHN PAU
II, AND LATER AGAIN, BENEDICT,
STANDING AT WESTERN WALL
PRAYING AT SACRED SITE, VISITING
THE HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL, AN
AGAIN, PRAYING FOR FORGIVENESS
FOR ACTS THAT CATHOLIC
COMMITTED AGAINST JEWS, THOS
WERE POWERFUL SYMBOL FOR JEW
AND CATHOLIC AS LIKE
ANY TRIP TO ISRAEL POSES A
CHALLENGE IN THE RELATIONS
BECAUSE THE CATHOLIC CHURCH HA
RELATIONSHIPS WITH THE
PALESTINIAN COMMUNITY AN
PALESTINIAN CHRISTIANS
THAT'S A CHALLENGE OF VISITING
THAT PART OF THE WORLD BUT IT'
AN IMPORTANT TRIP FOR POPES TO
MAKE
>> KIM LAWTON, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU
>> THIS PBS "NEWS HOUR WEEKEND
SATURDAY
>> THIS TUESDAY, IN HUNTING TH
NIGHTMARE BACTERIA FRONT LINE,
INVESTIGATES THE ALARMING RISE
OF DEADLY, UNTREATABLE
SUPERBUGS, INCLUDING AN OUTBREAK
AT THE NATIONAL INSTITUTES O
HEALTH CLINICAL CENTER
HERE'S A PREVIEW
>> WE HAVE NOW GOTTEN TO THE
POINT WHERE THEY WER
IDENTIFYING A PATIENT A WEEK AND
IT WAS NOT CLEAR HOW THESE
PATIENTS MIGHT BE RELATED TO
EACH OTHER
>> JULIE AND HER COLLEAGUE EVA
STARTED TO COMPARE THE EXAMPLE
OF THE KPC TAKE FRIEND PATIENTS.
>> ALL DNAs IN
>> Reporter: EACH PATIENT HAD
NUMBER
>> THIS SHOWS YOU, BASED ON TH
DNA SEQUENCES HOW THE BACTERIA
SPREAD THROUGHOUT THE HOSPITAL
>> BY MATCHING THE DNA, THEY
DISCOVERED SOMETHING NONE OF
THEM KNEW.
>> 3, 4, 8 ALL SILENT CARRIERS
THEY CAN BE TRANSMITTING T
OTHER PATIENTS WITHOUT ANYON
KNOWING THEY HAVE THE BACTERIA
THEMSELVES
THIS BACTERIA SEEMED TO HAVE
ALL OVER THE HOSPITAL BEFORE
THEY HAD COME UP POSITIVE.
>> THE HOSPITAL DIDN'T KNO
THAT
>> HE DIDN'T KNOW, BECAUSE THE
BACTERIA HAS CAPACITY TO LIVE IN
THE STOMACH OF PATIENTS WITHOU
CAUSING INFECTIONS
>> FOR ME, THE DATA WERE
STUNNING
>> WHY
>> BECAUSE IT BECAME VERY CLEA
THAT WE HAD MISSED THE
TRANSMISSION SEQUENCE.
>> THE HIGH-TECH GENOMIX
REVEALED A DISTURBING TRUTH,
YOUTH BREAK WOULD BE MUCH MORE
DIFFICULT TO CONTAIN
AND TO STOP IT, THEY NEEDED TO
FIGURE OUT EXACTLY HOW THE KPC
WAS MOVING THROUGH THE HOSPITAL.
WAS IT ON THE HANDS OF WORKERS
OR VISITORS OR ON HOSPITAL
EQUIPMENT?
AND THEN, AS THEY URGENTLY
SEARCHED FOR SILENT CARRIERS
THROUGHOUT THE REST OF THE
HOSPITAL, THEIR WORST NIGHTMAR
CAME TRUE.
OUTBREAK HAD SPREAD BEYOND THE
ICU.
>> JOIN US TOMORROW ON AIR AND
ONLINE
WE REPORT FROM HAWAII WHER
RESIDENTS ARE TAKING O
AGRICULTURE COMPANIES OVER THE
SAFETY OF PESTICIDES USED IN THE
DEVELOPMENT OF AGAIN KNITICALL
MODIFIED FEED.
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION O
"NEWS HOUR WEEKEND."
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN
THANKS FOR WATCHING.
>>> "PBS NEWS HOUR WEEKEND" IS
MADE POSSIBLE BY -- JUDY AND
JOSH
WESTIN, JOYCE B. HALE, THE
WALLACH FAMILY IN MEMORY O
MIRIAM AND IRA D. WALLACH.
THE CHERYL AND PHILLIP MILSTEI
FAMILY
BERNARD AND IRENE SCHWARTZ
ROSALYN P. WALTER.
CORPORATE FUNDING PROVIDED B
MUTUAL OF AMERICA, DESIGNING
CUSTOMIZED INDIVIDUAL AND GROU
RETIREMENT PRODUCTS.
THAT'S WHY WE'RE YOUR RETIREMENT
COMPANY.
ADDITIONAL SUPPORT IS PROVIDED
BY -
AND BY THE CORPORATION FOR
PUBLIC BROADCASTING AND BY
CONTRIBUTIONS TO YOUR PB
STATION FROM VIEWERS LIKE YOU.
THANK YOU.
-- Captions by VITAC -
www.vitac.co
>> AND THE EBB OVERTURES BY POPE